Hello and welcome back to the course on tableau.
And today we're talking about errors that you can get in maps.
And this we're talking about some specific errors which are related to data.
So let's have a look at that.
Here we've got the chart that we carried last time.
And this is for the number of personal vehicles sold in different regions.
Now we're going to go back to the data source and here you can see that we've got different regions
which are not recognized as a geographical location doesn't have this globe here because they are kind
of selected by us or by the person who was creating this data.
So they're very specific.
But at the same time the countries are recognized as a geographical location because you can see this
globe here.
So we're going to take advantage of that and create a map.
So let's just create a new worksheet.
Maybe this one will call something like relative
cars sold.
And this one we will call map OK.
We're going take a country and as we're used to we'll just drag it onto our worksheet and right away
we've got a map that came up and what we can do now is we will take vehicles sold and drag it into color.
And so now our map is colored based on number of vehicles.
And let's not forget right away with these time series data when we're working with it we have to remember
that if we're not visualizing the time series we have to filter by it.
So we'll take a year and put it into a filter and maybe I'll just select two thousand five OK and we'll
bring up a filter so show quick filter.
We obviously don't need all anymore and we'll just have a sliding scale so we can only select one year.
OK.
That's great.
But now have a look here at the bottom of the map.
You can see here six unknown.
What does that mean.
What does six unknowns mean.
Well let's click on it.
You can click on it and we'll all come up here it says that there are six values that have unknown geographical
locations what do you want to do.
You can edit locations you can filter the data or you can show data at a default position.
So I don't recommend data at default position filter data.
That just means kind of exclude these values that are not recognized so we'll controls that because
we don't want to exclude them right away.
We want to see if we can fix the error.
So here just go ahead and click edit locations and right away at the top you can see the six locations
that have not been identified.
So let's go ahead and fix them up.
So Burkina why has it not been identified.
Well let's try typing in Burkina and see what tableau has said will help Burkina Faso.
So let's click Burkina Faso and click OK.
And as you can see there somewhere there there Burkina has come up so it wasn't there.
So if I press controls that it's not there because they're recognized now it has come up because tableau
knows where to put it and is displaying the name that we have in the data Burkina.
But he knows tableau now knows that this location is actually geo coded to the one we've selected.
All right.
So let's go for the next one.
Let's skip Congo for now.
Let's go to Kazakhstan.
As you can see here it's kind of misspelt.
So it's actually Kazakh stand ups.
So there is an H in there.
So we select that and you will see this bit over here will come up.
So we'll click OK.
And as you can see Kazakhstan has been recognized.
That's great.
So as we slowly fixing up our map obviously Switzerland plus ifl should be just Switzerland and Tahiti
in Tableau is French Polynesia
and then Turkmenistan.
There is an R in the word too.
You see these are like data errors that you might not pick up right away in your data preparation phase.
So now you'll see all of these up here.
So there you go this Turkmenistan Switzerland appeared somewhere here.
And French Polynesia I'm not really sure where to find it right now.
But anyway so let's go back to the unknowns here you can see we've got Congo and it's unrecognized.
And if we start typing in Congo there's two types of Congo's Brownsville and the other one can shatter
and we like right now.
I don't know which Congo this daughter refers to so I can either investigate and find out where which
Congo is the correct one or if you don't have time or you don't really mind not having this element
of dawning realisation you can just cancel that and this one unknown you can filter the data and just
not have it at all so you know you can see that there is no Congo illustrated on the map.
And yeah that's the other way of doing it.
But I do encourage you to first check if you can fix up the data sometimes like we don't have an example
of this right now.
But sometimes you will find that say if you're dealing with cities and just say you're dealing with
cities in one country in the US for instance and you drag them onto the map and you find that nothing
is shown on the map.
Well that's because you need to tell tableau that you are dealing with the US.
So if you have a field for us then you just create a hierarchy as we used to do and that way everything
we find or if there is no field for the US then in map here you can one winter when you're adding location
you can just specify your actual country so you don't have to.
You'll have you'll see how to do that tableau will actually prompt you here and allow you to specify
the country you're working with.
So you'll if you're working with the U.S. you just specify us and then you'll recognize the cities and
that is because some some cities are duplicated in different countries so there's a Moscow in Russia
and there's a Moscow and in the U.S. and there's a Sydney in Australia.
I think there's another Sydney in the US and or Newcastle there's one in Australia and there's one in
the UK.
So tableau needs to know which country it's dealing with if it can't only go by the city or the States.
So sometimes you have to supply that additional information if it's not in your data and the hierarchy
hasn't been created.
OK.
So that's what we've done and what I wanted to show you here is that if you click through these years
you can see how the number of cars sold is changing through out our map and it'd be really cool to see
this as a visualization.
So if if you're interested in.
I mean really cool to see this as an animation.
So I just wanted to give you a heads up.
I do have an advanced course on Tableau so if you're interested in things like animations and more advanced
topics and Tableau make sure to check that out.
And that will help you take your tableau skills to a Jedi level but that's all for us for today and
I'll look forward to seeing you next time.
And until then happy analyzing.